README.rst, before:

Satsense
========

|Build Status| |Codacy Badge| |Maintainability| |Test Coverage|
|Documentation Status| |DOI|

Satsense is an open source Python library for patch based land-use and
land-cover classification, initially developed for a project on deprived
neighborhood detection. However, many of the algorithms made available
through Satsense can be applied in other domains, such as ecology and
climate science.

Satsense is based on readily available open source libraries, such as
opencv for machine learning and the rasterio/gdal and netcdf libraries
for data access. It has a modular design that makes it easy to add your
own hand-crafted feature or use deep learning instead.

Detection of deprived neighborhoods is a land-use classification problem
that is traditionally solved using hand crafted features like HoG,
Lacunarity, NDXI, Pantex, Texton, and SIFT, computed from very high
resolution satellite images. One of the goals of Satsense is to
facilitate assessing the performance of these features on practical
applications. To achieve this Satsense provides an easy to use open
source reference implementation for these and other features, as well as
facilities to distribute feature computation over multiple cpu’s. In the
future the library will also provide easy access to metrics for
assessing algorithm performance.

-  satsense - library for analysing satellite images, performance
   evaluation, etc.
-  notebooks - IPython notebooks for illustrating and testing the usage
   of Satsense

We are using python 3.6/3.7 and jupyter notebook for our code.

Installation from github
------------------------

Assuming you have `conda <https://conda.io>`__ installed and are in the
directory where you have checked out this repository, you can install
the dependencies by running:

.. code:: bash

   conda create --name satsense python=3
   conda activate satsense
   conda env update

If you prefer to use the package manager of your OS, use it to install
the `GDAL <https://pypi.org/project/GDAL/>`__ and
`netCDF4 <http://unidata.github.io/netcdf4-python/>`__ dependencies. On
Ubuntu Linux 18.04 and later, you can do so by running

.. code:: bash

   sudo apt install libgdal-dev libnetcdf-dev

When using your OS’s package manager, you may still want to create and
activate a virtual environment for satsense, e.g. using
`venv <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`__

.. code:: bash

   python3 -m venv ~/venv/satsense
   source ~/venv/satsense/bin/activate

Finally, to install satsense, run

.. code:: bash

   pip install .

Contributing
------------

Contributions are very welcome! Please see
`CONTRIBUTING.md <https://github.com/DynaSlum/satsense/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md>`__
for our contribution guidelines.

Citing Satsense
---------------

If you use Satsense for scientific research, please cite it. You can
download citation files from
`research-software.nl <https://www.research-software.nl/software/satsense>`__.

References
----------

The collection of algorithms made available trough this package is
inspired by

    J. Graesser, A. Cheriyadat, R. R. Vatsavai, V. Chandola,
    J. Long and E. Bright, "Image Based Characterization of Formal and
    Informal Neighborhoods in an Urban Landscape", in IEEE Journal of
    Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing,
    vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 1164-1176, Aug. 2012. doi:
    10.1109/JSTARS.2012.2190383

Jordan Graesser himself also maintains `a
library <https://github.com/jgrss/spfeas>`__ with many of these
algorithms.

Test Data
~~~~~~~~~

The test data has been extracted from the Copernicus Sentinel data 2018.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.com/DynaSlum/satsense.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.com/DynaSlum/satsense
.. |Codacy Badge| image:: https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/458c8543cd304b8387b7b114218dc57c
   :target: https://www.codacy.com/app/DynaSlum/satsense?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=DynaSlum/satsense&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade
.. |Maintainability| image:: https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/ed3655f6056f89f5e107/maintainability
   :target: https://codeclimate.com/github/DynaSlum/satsense/maintainability
.. |Test Coverage| image:: https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/ed3655f6056f89f5e107/test_coverage
   :target: https://codeclimate.com/github/DynaSlum/satsense/test_coverage
.. |Documentation Status| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/satsense/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://satsense.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
.. |DOI| image:: https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.1463015.svg
   :target: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1463015

Commit message:

Add note on how to install notebook requirements

README.rst, after:

Satsense
========

|Build Status| |Codacy Badge| |Maintainability| |Test Coverage|
|Documentation Status| |DOI|

Satsense is an open source Python library for patch based land-use and
land-cover classification, initially developed for a project on deprived
neighborhood detection. However, many of the algorithms made available
through Satsense can be applied in other domains, such as ecology and
climate science.

Satsense is based on readily available open source libraries, such as
opencv for machine learning and the rasterio/gdal and netcdf libraries
for data access. It has a modular design that makes it easy to add your
own hand-crafted feature or use deep learning instead.

Detection of deprived neighborhoods is a land-use classification problem
that is traditionally solved using hand crafted features like HoG,
Lacunarity, NDXI, Pantex, Texton, and SIFT, computed from very high
resolution satellite images. One of the goals of Satsense is to
facilitate assessing the performance of these features on practical
applications. To achieve this Satsense provides an easy to use open
source reference implementation for these and other features, as well as
facilities to distribute feature computation over multiple cpu’s. In the
future the library will also provide easy access to metrics for
assessing algorithm performance.

-  satsense - library for analysing satellite images, performance
   evaluation, etc.
-  notebooks - IPython notebooks for illustrating and testing the usage
   of Satsense

We are using python 3.6/3.7 and jupyter notebook for our code.

Installation from github
------------------------

Assuming you have `conda <https://conda.io>`__ installed and are in the
directory where you have checked out this repository, you can install
the dependencies by running:

.. code:: bash

   conda create --name satsense python=3
   conda activate satsense
   conda env update

If you prefer to use the package manager of your OS, use it to install
the `GDAL <https://pypi.org/project/GDAL/>`__ and
`netCDF4 <http://unidata.github.io/netcdf4-python/>`__ dependencies. On
Ubuntu Linux 18.04 and later, you can do so by running

.. code:: bash

   sudo apt install libgdal-dev libnetcdf-dev

When using your OS’s package manager, you may still want to create and
activate a virtual environment for satsense, e.g. using
`venv <https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html>`__

.. code:: bash

   python3 -m venv ~/venv/satsense
   source ~/venv/satsense/bin/activate

Finally, to install satsense, run

.. code:: bash

   pip install .

If you would like to use the Jupyter notebooks, you can install the required
dependencies along with satsense by running

.. code:: bash

   pip install .[notebooks]


Contributing
------------

Contributions are very welcome! Please see
`CONTRIBUTING.md <https://github.com/DynaSlum/satsense/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md>`__
for our contribution guidelines.

Citing Satsense
---------------

If you use Satsense for scientific research, please cite it. You can
download citation files from
`research-software.nl <https://www.research-software.nl/software/satsense>`__.

References
----------

The collection of algorithms made available trough this package is
inspired by

    J. Graesser, A. Cheriyadat, R. R. Vatsavai, V. Chandola,
    J. Long and E. Bright, "Image Based Characterization of Formal and
    Informal Neighborhoods in an Urban Landscape", in IEEE Journal of
    Selected Topics in Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing,
    vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 1164-1176, Aug. 2012. doi:
    10.1109/JSTARS.2012.2190383

Jordan Graesser himself also maintains `a
library <https://github.com/jgrss/spfeas>`__ with many of these
algorithms.

Test Data
~~~~~~~~~

The test data has been extracted from the Copernicus Sentinel data 2018.

.. |Build Status| image:: https://travis-ci.com/DynaSlum/satsense.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.com/DynaSlum/satsense
.. |Codacy Badge| image:: https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/458c8543cd304b8387b7b114218dc57c
   :target: https://www.codacy.com/app/DynaSlum/satsense?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=DynaSlum/satsense&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade
.. |Maintainability| image:: https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/ed3655f6056f89f5e107/maintainability
   :target: https://codeclimate.com/github/DynaSlum/satsense/maintainability
.. |Test Coverage| image:: https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/ed3655f6056f89f5e107/test_coverage
   :target: https://codeclimate.com/github/DynaSlum/satsense/test_coverage
.. |Documentation Status| image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/satsense/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://satsense.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
.. |DOI| image:: https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.1463015.svg
   :target: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1463015
